Welcome to our video on web development basics.
In this video you will learn about how captions help in accessibility.
We will begin with adding captions to a video.
Captions provide a text version of the spoken content in videos.
They help users who are deaf or hard of hearing.
Let’s take a look at how to write a simple VTT file.
Each caption starts with a time range, followed by the text.
WEBVTT files must start with the header “WEBVTT”.
You can add subtitles line by line with time codes.
Now let's look at how to include the track in HTML.
You use the  tag inside the  element.
Be sure to specify the kind, srclang, and label attributes.
You should also use the 'default' attribute to auto-load captions.
If your captions are not showing, check that the file path is correct.
Also check that your web server supports the .vtt MIME type.
Modern browsers support caption tracks well.
But users may need to manually enable subtitles.
Now let’s explore how captions can enhance the learning experience.
They make content more accessible and easier to follow.
Captions are also useful in noisy or sound-sensitive environments.
They support better comprehension for non-native speakers.
In web development, accessibility should always be a priority.
It’s not just about compliance, it’s about inclusion.
Let’s wrap up this section with a quick summary.
Captions improve accessibility and user experience.
Using captions is a best practice for all video content.
Now, let’s continue with more web development basics.
In the next section, we’ll cover semantic HTML elements.
These elements help define the structure and meaning of content.
Examples include , , , and .
Using semantic tags improves accessibility and SEO.
It also helps developers understand the layout of a page quickly.
Now let’s see these elements in action with some code examples.
We’ll build a simple HTML page using semantic tags.
Start with  for the top section of the page.
Next, use  for the core content of the page.
Inside , include  to organize related content.
Wrap up the page with a  at the bottom.
Semantic HTML helps screen readers interpret content properly.
It also improves collaboration among team members.
That's the power of well-structured HTML.
Next, we’ll discuss how to style semantic elements using CSS.
We’ll apply styles to create a visually appealing layout.
Remember to keep your CSS modular and organized.
Use classes and IDs where necessary to avoid conflicts.
Use comments in CSS to explain complex rules.
CSS also plays a key role in responsive web design.
We’ll introduce media queries in the next lesson.
That’s all for this introductory segment on HTML and captions.
In the next part, we’ll cover layout techniques with Flexbox.
Stay tuned and let’s build some responsive designs together!
Thanks for watching this part—let’s continue learning!
[Background music playing, no narration]